if you don't ask the questions of what
you want to do next the world is going
to put you in the box on what you have
to do next because they're determining
who you need to be and you are rising up
to their expectations because you're not
asking the questions yourself so
clarity to me is stemmed from you being
able to sit down and ask those tough
questions
that piss you off
that irritate you
that make you emotional that you cry
over that you reflect that makes you
want to do research that makes you
follow up that makes you sit down and
say i don't really know i've never
thought about this before and that goes
deeper and deeper and deeper everybody
indirectly
will impose their belief system into you
and it's never going to stop you know
this whole thing about people say oh my
gosh i can't wait to win to shut up all
my haters
reality checks it ain't never happening
okay it ain't never happening because
every time you come up it's just more of
them right and they're always the great
thing about haters is haters highlight
your weaknesses
[Music]
hey everybody welcome to impact theory
our goal with this show and company is
to introduce you to the people and ideas
that will help you actually execute on
your dreams all right today's guest is
the founder and ceo of php one of the
top insurance firms in america starting
from scratch he built php into one of
the fastest growing companies in the
financial marketplace that now employs
200 agents across 84 offices in 49
states taking himself from massively in
debt to a personal net worth of roughly
150 million dollars pretty extraordinary
for somebody who fled iran at the age of
10 spent two years in a refugee camp in
germany got fired from burger king and
left the military in his 20s with no
money and few monetizable skills
he summed up his secret to success in
his video the life of an entrepreneur in
90 seconds which went viral ultimately
gaining well over 30 million views and
helping to blow up his personal brand
now he's also the founder of the youtube
juggernaut valuetainment which has
nearly 1.2 million subscribers and a ton
of valuable content if you're looking to
succeed at the highest levels as a part
of his mission to spread the power of
entrepreneurship he's interviewed some
of the world's most extraordinary people
including nba hall of famer magic
johnson billionaire mark cuban and apple
co-founder steve wozniak making their
wisdom accessible to anyone willing to
learn so please help me in welcoming the
man who wrote the 25 laws to doing the
impossible the ferocious patrick bet
david
oh man
how are you good dude welcome brother
thanks for having me
absolutely my pleasure i'm super excited
to have you here it's great to be here
and i want to start maybe somewhere a
little unusual but i want to talk about
bodybuilding let's do it what what was
it that drew you to that and maybe more
importantly what did you learn from what
i'll call one of the most intense
disciplines in the world so when i was
14 years old i was
one
uh 135 and my name wasn't tyra banks so
that's that's that's what i got to
bodybuilding
and there was a commercial maybe you'll
remember this there was a commercial
that said uh
you know i used to be skinny you know
rejected by girls and now i drink milk
and you know i i don't know if you
remember that commercial the milk
commercial
so for me i said man i need some mussels
because i i need a date i need girls i
need to go out i need to protect myself
and i started hitting the weights at 14
years old i would go to the gym
with three sweaters on and there was a
guy in there named fred
uh who took a liking into me was like
five years older than me and
i was benching the bar you know the bar
is 45 pounds and when you don't have a
lot of strength when you you know bench
the bar the bar is shaking right
say pullman says come here kid
don't look at anybody you're gonna have
a two and a half pound rule on what
you're gonna do
every week we're gonna increase your
bench by two and a half pounds and
that's all you need to do
and then from there that whole two and a
half pound idea
i applied in business and everywhere
else and it worked because uh that led
me to
you know i was in the army i had my room
was all you know posters of arnold of
ronnie coleman of aaron baker of chris
cormier of lee haney
all of these guys and that's how i'm
gonna run for i'm gonna go be mr olympia
one day what did arnold represent to you
uh arnold represented to me
the story of an immigrant with a fire to
prove a point
that he wanted to control the narrative
you know when i say controlling the
narrative to me
is he's
written the story for his life you know
winston churchill said many years ago
history will be kind to me for i intend
to write it
i think arnold wrote is history this is
what i'm going to be doing
you know i'm going to come here i'm
going to compete i'm going to win i'm
going to go into hollywood i have an
accent with or without it i'm still
going to go into hollywood i'm going to
marry you kennedy i'm going to go and be
a governor and i'm going to do what i
want to do my life he was an example of
this is possible so the thing that i
find interesting about bodybuilding
because i started lifting in my mid-20s
ish and for me it was very different i
grew up in a morbidly obese family so i
was somewhat trying to escape that but
quite frankly i wanted to look like hugh
jackman so that was my obsession that
was right at the heyday of the x-men
franchise he was wolverine exactly oh
man i was i was just about it
and i really did hate it i hated every
minute of being in the gym but there was
something to that the this discipline
the two and a half pound rule you know
if every time that i cycle through a
body part i've got to be a little bit
stronger a little bit stronger a little
bit stronger
and my partners and i used to talk a lot
about what's super weird is here we are
where these three entrepreneurs were
using discipline in
lifting in the exact same way that we
would use it in business the ability to
push through something hard the demand
that you grow and get better
and we were looking at other people and
arnold became fascinating to us because
he was the only one that could apply it
to every area of his life like what made
him great in bodybuilding and i think my
favorite schwarzenegger quote is
somebody said to him i don't want to
look like you and he said don't worry
you won't
and like the
the truth and the sort of wonderful
arrogance of that quote of how hard it
is that it's never going to happen by
accident
but it's always fascinated me how few
bodybuilders are able to translate that
discipline how are you able to take that
and apply it to business and other
things i got to tell you i'm surprised
you're asking this question because no
one asked this question but
everything that i've done post
bodybuilding goes back to bodybuilding
it's amazing when i tell you everything
uh in bodybuilding you'll learn areas
you miss out on which is what most
people don't do legs
you know arnold at the beginning stages
of his curious he would take pictures in
the water because you know he didn't
want to show his calves so he would
always do thighs because he had the
thighs but he didn't have the calves so
i'm doing a pose with the
uh minimizing the calves then he started
doing the donkey raises with franco
colombo on his back and really got
focused about the cavs and he had these
massive calves in business it could be
the same thing you could be all good on
front end you know marketing but your
operation sucks and for me
i was so fronted i was so sales that i
wasn't good in operations
and i didn't pay attention to the
systems i didn't pay attention to we
don't need technology we don't need to
look at automation we don't look at this
we need more marketing we need to do
this and
finally the conversation got deeper and
deeper and deeper to the point where we
have to pay attention to it my wife
pulled me in and she brought the board
in she brought everybody and everybody
sat there and said we need to invest in
technology
and uh when we did that i could scale
because now you have a knob
and whenever you have a knob to control
and you you increase it a little bit
when flow is coming in that's what
really helped us grow the business to a
different level so
yeah when i look at bodybuilding and
what that did to my life business-wise
everything
went back to small little growth right
beating your prior best
and then shocking your business because
that's like a new campaign new
initiative so
same thing with business so i would say
a lot of it applied
from that into business for me i loved
the um the life of an entrepreneur in 90
seconds it's basically that it's how to
build yourself brick by brick you're
talking about how you see the flash you
see the cars the money the house but you
don't see the times they were freaking
out stressed anxiety things were going
wrong and they had to just get better
every day and by doing that day after
day after day they were able to really
turn themselves into a beast and one of
my favorite stories about what you're
talking about with arnold and his calves
is so he goes through the phase where at
first he's standing in the water and he
doesn't let himself be photographed and
then he flips it and he makes a
sweatsuit where the only part that's
visible are his calves so that he could
never distract himself with something
that looked good
and he would walk around the gym with
his worst body part exposed so that he'd
make sure that he'd put in the work
and i found that like incredibly
interesting what do you think about this
notion of made not born like how much of
it do you think people like arnold has
terrible calves but he can really build
them how malleable are we
made not born so for me
i have three kids okay now we just had a
great conversation my kids but i have
three kids myself
so i look at my kids from the day
they're born
they are who they are so we parents tend
to take a lot of credit for their kids
like hey you know look at my kid that's
my son well you know i know how to raise
him and i know how to do this
and in a way it's fine because it's
pride because that's my kid that's my
blood that's my this but
i don't know if parents can take as much
credit
or as much blame for the kids i know
some people may disagree with this and
say what man what are you saying here
i'm not saying there isn't but it isn't
80 i think it's 20
i think the other 80 is when you're born
there are some elements to you of how
you are my oldest is very quiet every
picture you see him taking
he's looking at you like he's looking
through your soul like he's trying to
figure out what you're thinking this kid
has been like this since day one the
middle one charmer everybody loves this
kid everybody's like fascinated by this
kid because he's so friendly he'll run
around here and talk to ricky over there
from boston and he'll go around making
friends with everybody that's dylan
that's how dylan is and the smaller
one's got a temper but she's going to
get what she wants and she's very
assertive right okay
so i can sit here and say yeah that's
you know that's me because of my
parenting stuff so i think one is the
way we're born that's our dna that's one
two
is things that happens in your life for
instance for me
uh if i watch a whis if i see a movie
scene with a whistling sound i'm going
straight back to iran
instant
right but if you hear a whistle too
you're going back to a park i'm not
going to park i'm going to iran i'm
going to iran going over a bridge
and a bomb drops 50 yards behind us and
my dad says don't look back i'm in a
white renault my sister's sitting next
to me my mom is over here my dad's over
we're going to a city called caraj which
is the palm springs to l.a we're trying
to get away from the war and i look
behind me the bridge is coming down i
mean that stays with me till the day i
die because that whistling sound that's
not parents that's life experiences that
causes that
a heartbreak a breakup parents getting a
divorce a fight getting bullied
being knocked out publicly in front of
your peers humiliator girl breaks up
with you in front of your peers leaves
you for your friend all of these things
then make you because of those
experiences now when that happens
uh it's like a formula you are gonna do
one of three things you you know the
whole flight freeze or fight you're
either gonna freeze and you're going to
suppress and keep it internally and
eventually going to implode and when you
employ you're going to hurt a lot of
people
or you're going to flight and you'll
avoid that person every time you're
running around them oh my gosh you see
i'm going to go in this room i'm going
to avoid her i'm going to avoid her i'm
going to avoid her or you're going to
fight right
now you know what freeze happens nothing
happens flight nothing's happened but
fight that part is born during those
moments
and uh you know so you figure that part
of what the person's made up of you
can't teach that part to somebody you
can't say somebody could encourage you
and somebody could say hey patrick stand
up for yourself
yeah but you could say that to me when
people are around but what if no one's
around
most of the time no one is around you
have to learn to stand up for yourself
so when you ask the question born versus
mate
i i don't think it's a one-dimensional
answer i think it's such a
multi-dimensional answer that if we get
deeper to it
you'll be able to figure people out and
say no wonder this guy became who he is
today because these three different
things combined wow this makes a lot of
sense to me so i don't know if that
answers your question for you or not but
for me that's kind of it starts
but i really want to push so i'm talking
to a guy that does valuetainment who is
creating content which is definitely
telling you how to live you wrote a book
the laws of doing the impossible
your video that popped off and went
viral was all about how you can learn
and it it
i'm going to use my words now it doesn't
matter who you are today it matters who
you want to become and the price you're
willing to pay to get there
so
help me and maybe there's just another
part of this help me square the your
sort of the totality of your dna and
your experiences and then you completely
end up shifting your life you said the
best thing that ever happened to you was
hitting rock bottom because it forced
you to reevaluate your thinking so what
i want to know is right now there are
people watching us and they are
panicking that you're saying that who
they are today is just it's a product of
you know their
the culmination of their dna and their
experience and it's a trap basically and
they are who they are
but i don't think you believe that i
don't think that's what i'm saying
though so how what is that next level of
malleability how much can we change so
what i'm saying is a part of it is your
dna we have to understand it there's a
part of it that is your dna but and
you'll never be able to break free from
that or you just have to understand it
so that you know how to change no for
example you know if
you know
if you are somebody that
um a personality
i can't change your personality to be
like xyz
you know this whole concept about
modeling you know you got to model
somebody
too much modeling leads to imitation
because you're not being you right so
speaking some people say well pat i
don't see a lot of people speak like you
you speak differently i don't know any
other way to speak but i used to try to
speak like somebody else that i was
trying to model and i said no no this is
how i speak this is me this is my method
of delivering my message to you makes
sense great if it doesn't make sense it
doesn't make sense but the part about
the other side for me is i also believe
firmly
that events conversations certain
individuals can completely
say something that can change your life
forever so what are some of the tools
you use i know that you've talked about
clarity is super important carrots talk
to us about those two things which i
think are both pretty powerful yeah tom
i would say questions you know like
right now uh uh i i i i'm more curious
about people that i can't even help
myself i'm asking you questions like hey
you know how come you don't have any
kids we don't have any kids why don't
you have any kids well because you know
we decided six years ago we're not gonna
have any kids but how did you how did
you know that well we got married 17
years ago but we've been together for 20
years and my wife just said was a
decision an emotional decision or a
logical decision i think it was a
logical decision because it was finding
a way to get in you know fulfillment
what you and your wife did is what very
few people do
and the whole purpose is sitting down
and asking the questions what if i get
asked a question that i don't have the
answer to one of the scariest things
about life it's a question
the scary question can shake a soul up
because no one's asked that question
from you
so for me the transition for somebody
want to change it and get clarity is
actually asking questions
if you don't ask the questions of what
you want to do next the world is going
to put you in the box on what you have
to do next because they're determining
who you need to be
and you are rising up to their
expectations because you're not asking
the questions yourself so clarity to me
is stemmed from you being able to sit
down and ask those tough questions
that piss you off
that irritate you
that make you emotional that you cry
over that you reflect that makes you
want to do research that makes you
follow up that makes you sit down and
say i don't really know i've never
thought about this before and that goes
deeper and deeper and deeper
so clarity is stamped based on like the
way you answered a question to me tom it
was amazing so do you have any kids no
we made a decision a long time ago we
didn't want to have kids the way you
said it was like very nonchalant
really it was so like yeah that's what
we did
then i said so tell me how you processed
it
it's very obvious that was a very
comfortable certain decision what a lot
of time put into it
very few people do that and then you've
got clarity and clarity gives confidence
so somebody looks at your eyes when you
give the answer there is no you know
looking away or uncomfortable or
anything you're like this is who we are
this is the decision we made but that
clarity came from all the conversations
you and your wife had together i don't
think enough people do that together
yeah no question one thing in your book
that you talked about that i thought was
really interesting was you asked the
question
to your point about questions when was
the last time you thought about your
identity and you just brought that up
what's that process for people how do
you be like how what is the identity
which i think most people give stats
like what do you mean by that and how
can people begin to shape their identity
so
tom who were you in high school
what was my identity yeah so if i was in
high school with you who were you you
were a comedian a thousand percent okay
comedian when did it change
uh as soon as i went to college i
consciously decided i wanted to become
the artist which was not necessarily the
right decision but that was yeah when i
changed and then what happened from
artist to quest poverty
and so i so i start um want to be the
funny guy because i need attention in
high school
by the end of high school i'm very good
at making people laugh in a sort of
living room funny way
i do countless hours of practice of
stand-up comedy and when i go to college
i'm like my only style of humor is
self-deprecating so i'm always making
fun of myself which actually makes me
think a little bit less of myself so i
very much had an inferiority complex in
high school i cheated my way to being in
the top 10 of my graduating class i did
terribly on my sats and i come into film
school and i'm like this is what i want
to do with the rest of my life like i
actually want to be good at this and
that's one sort of realization i'm
grateful for was i realized at some
point you're in the big bad world and
you're either good or you're not and so
you better stop cheating really pay
attention and get good and so i thought
i need to take myself more seriously
stop making fun of myself so i didn't
tell anybody that i was
you know a
comedic person or anything i didn't make
jokes nothing and so i began to adopt
the identity of the artist i have some
artistic failures which creates this
identity crisis
i'm very much in the grips of poverty
now because i've graduated my parents
aren't helping me anymore i'm selling
insurance door-to-door
this this um this would have been 99.
wow
so 20 years ago yeah so and and i'm just
like in this
i'm sliding towards depression i've no
sense of how i can make things come true
this is all pre-internet so like there's
just there's no hope for me like there's
the idea to make a hundred thousand
dollar film which back then there was no
youtube there was no video cameras you
could make movies on i mean it just
wasn't a thing so it was like 100 000
film might as well have been 100 million
dollar film so i'm stuck what am i going
to do and that's when i meet these two
entrepreneurs who are like look you're
coming to the world with your hand out
and if you want to control the art you
have to control the resources and so
that began a very long journey of
identity for me of figuring out who am i
how do i define myself now and how is
that useful wow like understanding that
it is completely malleable i can decide
right now that i'm somebody else that my
identity is something new and something
different like i remember the day i told
people i was going to start lifting and
i just said right now today i'm lifting
and i told people i'm gonna put on
muscle i'm gonna look like hugh jackman
everybody's like yeah yeah right
and
i just went beast mode and i just
started working out all the time and i
realized whoa like it's a demarcation
line in the sand
yesterday at this time i did not have
the sense that i'm going to become like
hugh jackman that i am a lifter i am
somebody who sticks through with what
they say and now today i'm just going to
decide that is me and so i began telling
people it which gave all this pressure
that i had to live up to it and i began
to realize like whoa this is a lever
that you can pull
and it drives behavior
that's amazing i mean that pretty much
explains the whole thing about identity
right so
i think the first identity we have is
whatever identity we're trying to get
attention for i mean you know when you
come out you're saying your your family
extremely obese i think you said so i
don't know was it a uh mom in that state
together was it a healthy family was it
loving was it was it a crazy environment
was a lot of pressure no like it was
pretty good but my parents end up so i i
have this recurring nightmare as a kid
and i can't explain it i'm in a loveless
marriage so imagine me at 14 i've never
had a relationship but i have this
recurring nightmare about being in a
loveless marriage
not realizing of course my parents were
in a loveless marriage and i just didn't
know wow and so
on some subconscious level i was
obviously picking up on that mad respect
to my parents who stayed together until
three weeks after i left for college and
then they split up get out of here no
and i actually respect it like that i
would never do that i would never repay
that because that's so crazy to me to
live a life that's less than it could be
for your kids which is why i don't have
children makes sense um so but they did
that i'm very grateful wow
going back to the identity part uh you
know you had a moment
that you had to make a decision and you
asked some questions and you met a
couple people that eventually
inspired you to want to make change and
then you went after what you wanted to
do and that day when you said i'm going
to start looking like hugh jackman the
next day and one day the decision not
that serious the next day here's who i'm
going to end up being when i listen to
your story it's all y2 and we don't
spend enough time with y2 y2 is linked
to identity how two is systems learning
it's a skill it's a skill set anybody
can pick that up so identity is you
asking the questions until eventually
you get to a point that you get to the
deeper part of who do you want to be
what life do you want to live and why do
you want to live this life why is it
important why is it what you're putting
through all these hours why would you
want to do that
that's transition when you go through it
and then the pressure part when you said
here's who i'm gonna be where you
declare your intentions to the world
this is what i'm gonna be doing a lot of
times we keep things to secret and so
there's a debate some say you should
never declare your intentions to the
world because that pressure could create
anxiety you should never do it you know
like babe ruth pointed a finger and i'm
gonna hit a home run what if you don't
hit it what if you fail you know what if
you say michael jordan says the bulls
never winning losing game seven you
should never say that because there's
too much pressure on the players or then
the other side said well you should put
the pressure on yourself because your
teammates play better because it's not
on them it's on you and the leader does
that to me um
i think declaring intention serves a
purpose i think when you go out there
and you say this is what i'm going to be
doing this is where i'm going to be at
you officially have the world holding
you accountable
that pressure could be good pressure to
put into your life we we hear the phrase
peer pressure
and we always get the negative
connotation with peer pressure right
it's like hey uh don't do drugs because
of peer pressure you know say no to
drugs peer pressure go to school peer
pressure peer pressure
where i mean it all depends who the peer
is that's giving you pressure because if
you've got the right peer giving the
right kind of pressure you can do some
big things in your life so i think that
additional kind of peer pressure you put
into yourself you're in the right
circles right environments those two
guys that you know put some kind of a
peer pressure or direction into you can
really be a spark to change someone's
life where all of a sudden the identity
goes from being a regular person to the
next day no one recognizes them
in the world of social media of
influencers there's some that will say
things like listen you have a lot of
time take your time you're okay you're
going to be all right you're going to be
fine you have a lot of time
and that's fine that can work for some
audiences
and sometimes you wonder if it's almost
like a strategy so other people don't
catch up to you because they think
they're like honestly you sit there and
say is this guy really that dark that
he's trying to get everybody else to
slow down so he kind of you know works
his ass up hey everybody else you slow
down it's okay where for me on the other
side is listen this never lies this lies
when i look at my hand this way i'm 25
years old when i look at my hand this
way i'm 40 years old
we look at our hands too often this way
i like to look at my hands like this
this doesn't lie this is a 40 year old
wrinkles this is 40 okay i can't lie
about that that's 40 years old now i can
look at this and say no i'm a lot
younger i got a lot of time we don't so
for me
i would sit there one of my biggest
drivers was
you're at your dad's funeral
this this sounds crazy to some people
but i have visualized
it's going to be the first time my dad's
going to hear this because i've never
said this to him because you know i just
don't want to tell him this kind of
stuff because i don't want him to think
about it like i don't want him to say
hey can't believe you said this i have
visualized my dad's funeral
50 000 times
and when i visualize i'm like okay
you're speaking what are you saying you
know you're the closing speaker what are
you gonna say
you're okay with it are you okay with
who's gonna be there
you know are you okay if he does at this
age your kids never met him they don't
have a relationship with grandpa like
you don't for you it matters because
david last name you're the only person i
can continue to spit david last name
all the other guys didn't have kids you
have to continue this generation there's
a legacy a syrian community is a small
community we're endangered species it's
not like there's millions of us it's a
very small community of syria we lost
our country
so i go there and i'm like oh my gosh
that's not how it's going to be here's
how it's going to be he's going to live
this this is what's going to take place
so when that day comes i'm not going to
have any regrets because i'm going to be
good
that visualization of going there
creates so much urgency for me that
makes me move too often this whole gift
that we have like we're not putting that
gift of imagination and visualization in
place and so either we waste it
and we just go into la la land oh my
gosh what if i have a big house what if
my you know zip code is beverly hills
what if i have this big house and what
if i could put the big parties what if i
date these hot girls what if i date the
best looking guy what if i have this
what if i have that that's fine but
that's not deep enough you got to go
really deep
really deep with purpose and really deep
with if you don't move what could take
place so
again going back to it for me
is for people to sit there and realize
if you really want to move yourself
ask the questions go deeper on what life
could happen both good and bad don't
just say oh all good or all bad tap it
to both of them and hopefully that
creates urgency for you to start taking
the next necessary steps to grow your
business but uh
the gift of imagination and
visualization is rarely used properly
it's interesting that you say that so
the 19 year old version of myself i was
actually asked
what's your ideal woman and i described
her just like you were talking about
height
i said she's going to
speak a foreign language but she needs
to speak english perfectly to get my
humor
um
she but i find accents so sexy and i
think it's so cool when somebody can
speak a second language which was always
a fantasy of mine said she'll be short
she'll either be able to draw or sing
and she's going to be like ethnic
somehow because growing up in tacoma
dude it was white people 24 7. and so it
was like just finding somebody that was
like a little bit different was very
intoxicating so of course i end up
marrying a greek girl but she grew up in
england so she speaks greek but english
perfectly and she can draw she's a
world-class artist so i was like wow
this is so crazy when you really have
clarity about what you want and it comes
across your path and you're paying
attention
then it's like all of a sudden
hey i'm gravitating towards this this is
you know something that's interesting to
me but one thing that i think really
became powerful for lisa and i is
something that you talk a lot about
which is you've got to shut out the
noise of what other people think and
you've got to be willing to really
be yourself know what you're thinking
about
why is that powerful why do we need to
excluding some of the right people why
do we need to stop caring about what
other people think
because uh
life goes by wasted when you do that you
know i remember when my parents got a
divorce
um so my mother's side they're armenian
and my dad's side they're a syrian okay
so if i go to the armenian side and i
would hang out with them they were on
their way to getting a divorce the
armenian side would say he's a bad david
he's a syrian and they would pin me
against them and if i went on the
assyrian side they would say oh he's
armenian look at him he's bad at mani
which by that many means uh uh
uh terrible armenian is what it meant i
mean these things that they had
armenians and assyrians they have a big
debate on who's the first christian
armenians are syrians why was that an
important
situation for me as a kid because
everybody indirectly
will impose their belief system into you
and it's never going to stop you know
this whole thing about people say oh my
gosh i can't wait to win to shut up all
my haters
reality checks it ain't never happening
okay it ain't never happening because
every time you come up it's just more of
them right and they're always the great
thing about haters is i always talk
about the fact that my best consultants
are my haters best because
it almost makes no sense to be a hater
let me explain to you why because
haters highlight your weaknesses
and if you're smart you're like he makes
a good point i do have bad caps i better
start working on my calves thank you for
that feedback now i kick your ass
because you pointed out my weakness what
a great consultant we don't need a
consulting firm we just need to hire new
haters looking for haters right come on
more haters please send me some more
hate so i can see my flaws my weaknesses
but the whole idea about that is hey one
day i'm going to make so much money i'm
going to shut everybody up that doesn't
work first of all that's not going to
take place
the more you move up the most hated man
in the world today is the president
united states and prior to him the most
hated man in the world was the president
united states prior to him which was
barack obama once a democrat was a
republican it's irrelevant that's that
part's not going away so the voice is
never going to be less so you have a
choice
either you can say
i don't want to deal with the voice live
a small life no problem it's okay as
long as you're happy with it you're
content you're aligned with your values
and principles more power to you but if
you can't live a small life and you have
to live a big life you have to
understand that it's going to be pushed
and you have to figure out a way to
silence everybody every time somebody
gets married for the first time
and if they ask the question i never
impose but if they ask a question and
say so what feedback would you give us
they were just getting married first
what was going to tell you when you guys
going to have kids it's number one when
you're going to get pregnant i said my
suggestion to you is
tell everybody up front you don't have
any plans of having kids for 10 years
okay
but if you do you do but if you tell me
you're gonna have kids everyone's gonna
tell you what how come you're not
pregnant yet does this thing not work
does your thing not work what is going
on i bet she's sick i always knew she
had that limp maybe it's because of the
way he walks i it's the lisp i knew what
was going to happen with his family and
then you're overthinking right shut
everybody up right up front tell
everybody to manage expectation
anticipation is game
the day before i got married i set my uh
parents down they hadn't been the same
room for 20 years
20 years i had them in the same room and
if they were in the same room together
a a german would have been resurrected
to start world war three i mean they
could not be in the same room together
but i i brought them to my house they
say oh we're coming to your wedding i
said no you're not
of course we're coming to your wedding
so who told you coming you're waiting
did i send you an invitation i didn't
send you an invite you are invited to my
house both of you together we're not
coming to your house oh you're not
coming to the wedding
it says what is wrong with you were your
parents so i said listen i'm just
telling it's very simple you come to my
house that is your ticket to the wedding
because you are not going to create this
escapade at my wedding the first time
you see each other after 20 years around
all this other stuff so they came to my
house
and they said
it was so uncomfortable it was
entertaining i wish i would have
recorded this setting right so they're
sitting i'm looking at them i can't take
a smile off my face because i'm having
too much fun with this so i say hey mom
dad i'm going to step out you guys got
to talk and you guys got to hash it out
because you guys can't have any politics
at the wedding so i step out i am
literally out for 20 seconds they tell
me we're ready
we're ready come back and so i come back
and i said what happened we're good i
said no problems no that's okay you guys
know about it here's the invitation
here's the invitation they came to the
wedding but i told my mom that they said
mom you have to realize in a middle
eastern culture a lot of times
moms are put number one before wives i
want you to know
the day i get married
the following day you go from number one
to number two and it's very simple
and i don't want to hear about it she is
my number one you are my number two i
love you but you're not number one she's
number you're number two
it's very hard for her but it was clear
so you can't come in between me and my
wife if me and my wife gonna argue we're
gonna argue it's none of your business
this is our business we're fighting we
didn't ask you for your advice we're
fighting leave us alone we have our own
issues we have to deal with
but
we don't say those things so everybody
creates noise so the more you tell the
world how to manage expectations dealing
with you and what to anticipate you
actually minimize a lot of the noise and
most of the noise that's the most
irritating are from the people closest
to you not strangers because who cares
what a stranger says about you you care
what your family says about you and that
can be controlled if you do it properly
yeah the uh the world will treat you
exactly the way you let them treat you
which i think is super powerful and you
as you were talking i was like
it's so important to do to lay down the
ground rules to tell people like what's
okay what's not okay and so many people
are terrified to do that they're afraid
to upset their mom
i had a similar conversation with my mom
what i find interesting is your concept
of of family values and it's not what
people think and
walk us through our traditions excuse me
family traditions walk us through this
notion of family traditions and how
people just take that stuff on without
ever questioning it
yeah you have to question everything
first of all it's not just family
traditions for me you gotta question
everything you got a question
if you grew up a republican are you a
republican and why
if you grew up in a family where
everybody was a military you know
general army whatever and because of
that you're a republican why are you if
you're a democrat why are you democrat
because what because you're latino
because you're black because you're
middle eastern
you're you're a republican because are
you a christian for what are you a
christian because you're a christian
because your parents are christians are
you an atheist because of you or your
parents are you a scientologist because
you're your parents what are your belief
system right what are you doing and do
you subscribe to the same mindset do you
subscribe to the same mindset of what
rich people are you know i grew up in a
family where my mother didn't like rich
people so for me it was kind of like
rich people are terrible people they're
greedy all they care about is money i
can't stand rich people they're selfish
they put everybody else to work and they
live in these big homes and they do
nothing and they party and they go to
the nice restaurants and buy a thousand
dollar bottle of wine and i'm freaking
having a two dollar beer here screw
these rich people right i can't stand
these rich people he drinks a bordeaux
and i'm drinking a budweiser that
cold-hearted rich guy right
and so to me it was that so it's coming
up i'm like you know these rich people
are greedy
then i started questioning everything
every single thing
and when i started questioning
everything my philosophies and life
became clear you see for me
one of the reasons why i like
a book by marcus aurelius meditations
why i like ray dalio's book uh
principles is because it's here's my
principles here's my values and a lot of
times
we don't take the time to say what are
the values and principles that i'm
willing to build my life on what are
they and what it really are they what
what are you willing to really stand up
for you know what is your core belief
system you know are you a certain belief
because you live in a certain city and
you have to be are you thinking about
money in a way because your parents
looked at money that way maybe your
parents don't like money because they
didn't want to work for money maybe
they're out and you know their escape
was they had a nephew or a niece or a
brother or sibling or somebody that did
better than them so for them to prove to
you that they still did their part right
is to belittle that person listen our
parents are still human beings you know
we look at parents as they know
everything dirty almighty parents make
mistakes parents don't have everything
figured out they're trying to figure it
out for themselves so i think the
solution for you to become free is you
got to question every
single thing even the one that is so
core to you that you're kind of like
you want me to even question this yes
all of it here's why because here's what
happens
the idea isn't to question and change
like the idea isn't to say i question it
and they're wrong so i change everything
no if you question it
your argument and belief system in that
value or principle could actually go a
layer deeper than you currently are
and if it goes a layer deeper than you
currently are then it becomes a
conviction
and you give me anybody that leads an
army give me anybody that leads the
country give me anybody that does
anything that impacts the world their
convictions are at a higher level than
yours everybody has convictions that
they live with
it's incredible i love that
we won't have time to go deep on these
but just really fast i would be remiss
not to ask what are some core beliefs
that you'd be willing to stand up for
um
you know don't be afraid of the truth my
dad told me that from day one once
you're clear on what you stand for don't
be afraid of the truth
um
for me it's uh keeping your word it's
very critical when you say you're gonna
do something you do it
like cashing your word like i want your
word to have a lot of value for me if i
tell you
we're gonna do something i mean it has
to be end of the world for not to happen
uh i'm gonna go out of my way to make
sure my word keeps that value because
it's it's more for me than it is for you
it's more for me to trust the words that
are coming out of my mouth than anybody
else but you know i would say those
things in an alignment for me is all the
way at the top
alignment is it's so critical to me the
way you live and whatever you believe if
they're aligned you're living a happy
life
alignment's all the way at the top for
me it's incredible
where can these guys find you online
um you know if you go on youtube you
type in patrickbetdavid you'll find me
there if you go on instagram same thing
uh patrick bedeville famine i'll
typically respond back on instagram more
than any other platform nice all right
my last question
what's the impact that you want to have
on the world
so it's phases first 20 years was to
make sure you know i live and i figure
out a little bit of life by seeing
everybody the next 20 years was business
which is purely
uh understanding the ins and outs of
running a company running a business
kind of like really building a company
from scratch founder how do you do this
how do you do that raising money uh
human nature studying that for 20 years
the next 20 years is controlling the
narrative media and in the last 20 years
gonna have to do with iran syrian
community you know
a whole slew of other plans that i have
but that'll be from 60 on
40 to 60 is going to be media
we have a very similar 40 to 60. very
cool i like the sound of that patrick
thank you so much for coming on the show
thanks for having me that was really
really incredible really incredible guys
if you haven't already dive into his
world is absolutely extraordinary and if
you haven't already be sure to subscribe
and until next time my friends be
legendary take care
jesus dude
if you enjoyed that interview with
patrick you're gonna love the one that i
did with garyvee so be sure to click
that link there and check it out enjoy
and i'll see you there so many people
are keyboard activists right everybody's
good at sending a tweet about how the
world should be and nobody's doing
anything about it and that just that is
just very much human nature